# modules
In Terraform, modules are a way to organize and reuse Terraform configurations. They allow you to encapsulate and group related resources, making your infrastructure code more modular, maintainable, and reusable. Modules can be thought of as self-contained units of Terraform configuration that can be composed together to define more complex infrastructure.

Here are key concepts and features of Terraform modules:

1. **Module Structure:**
   - A Terraform module is a collection of Terraform files (usually in a directory).
   - It can include `.tf` files with resource definitions, variables, outputs, and other configurations.

2. **Inputs and Outputs:**
   - Modules can take inputs, which are typically defined as variables.
   - Modules can produce outputs that can be used by other parts of your Terraform configuration.

3. **Reusability:**
   - Modules promote code reuse. You can use the same module in multiple places, which helps avoid duplicating code.
   - Modules can be shared and versioned, allowing you to build a library of reusable infrastructure components.

4. **Encapsulation:**
   - Modules encapsulate specific pieces of functionality or infrastructure. They abstract the details and expose a clean interface through inputs and outputs.
   - This abstraction helps make your Terraform configurations more readable and maintainable.

5. **Source Locations:**
   - Modules can be sourced from different locations, such as a local file system, Git repositories, or Terraform Registry.

6. **Module Calls:**
   - To use a module, you call it within your Terraform configuration using the `module` block and provide values for its input variables.

Here's a simple example of using a module:

```hcl
// main.tf

provider "aws" {
  region = "us-west-2"
}

module "example" {
  source = "./modules/my_module"

  // Input variables for the module
  variable1 = "value1"
  variable2 = "value2"
}

// Use outputs from the module
output "module_output" {
  value = module.example.output_variable
}
```

```hcl
// modules/my_module/main.tf

resource "aws_instance" "example_instance" {
  ami           = var.variable1
  instance_type = var.variable2
}

// Output variable
output "output_variable" {
  value = aws_instance.example_instance.id
}
```

In this example, the main configuration uses a module located in the `./modules/my_module` directory. The module defines an AWS EC2 instance, and the main configuration provides values for input variables and utilizes the output variable from the module.

This modular approach helps in managing and scaling Terraform configurations, especially for larger and more complex infrastructures.
